VM Credential:

Public IP: 20.219.52.226
Username: azureuser
Password: azureuser@123

Command: ssh azureuser@20.219.52.226


Commands:

clear:Clears the terminal.
mkdir foldername: To create a folder.
ls : To get the list of folders as well files.
mkdir foldername1 foldername2 foldername3 : To create multiple folders
  azuar 
mkdir -p newfolder/a/old : To create a file in a folder basiclly a subdirectory of a folder (-p stands for parent, this option is suggesting the command to create the parent directory first)
ls newfolder :To get into the folder, then ls newfolder/a : to get in to the (a) folder, ls/newfolder/a/old : To get into the old folder
 ls -l : To get the files and folder in a detailed manner (when it's created and etc....)
 pwd : To get to know your present working directory 
ls -a : to get to know the hidden folders in the directory
 ls -al : It will show al, the folders the public and the private
 ls -R : It will show all the files in a  tree structure.(-R : It stands for recursive)
 ls -r : It will show the data in a reverse manner(-r : It satnds for reverse)
 cd : It stands for changing the directory
 cd .. : To come out from a directory or a folder
 ll : To get the long listing(somehow same as ls -al)
 touch filename : To create an empty file
 nano filename:  To open and edit the file in the nano text editor.
   ctrl + s : Save the file.
    ctrl + x: to exit the file.
 nano newfile.txt
 vi filename.txt : To create a file using vi text editor.
 cat filename : to read any file.
Vi text editor has two modes:

 a) Command mode : In this mode you can execute commands to save the file or exit the text editor.
 b) insert mode : In this mode you will be inserting values, enable you to typein data in the file.
 By default you will be in the command mode only.
 
To enter the insert mode you need to press the 'i' button on your keyboard.
To enter the command mode you will have to press the 'esc' button.

:w -> write => save the file
:q -> to exit the application editor.

use of cat command:

cat filename : to read the content of the file 
cat >> (append) used to join two or more file
	for example : cat file1.txt file2.txt >> output.txt ( it will copy the content of file1 and file2 in output.txt file)
	
cat > ( used to replace/copy the content of one file to another )
example : cat file1 > file2 ( this will replace the content of file 2 and copy all the content of file1 to file2)

to delete file : rm filename and rm -r filename (recursive)
to delete empty directory : rmdir dirname 

to delte non empty directory : rm -rf dirname 

cp command is used to copy the file example cp file1.txt file1copy 
 to copy file from one directory to another directory we have to give the full path : cp file1 dirname/file1copy.txt 
 to copy directory : cp -r directoryname (source) directoryname (destination dir)

 move command : mv  ( its simple as cut and paste in windows)
syntax : mv source destication example mv dir1 dir2 

mv command is also used for renaming 
example : mv file1.txt newfile.txt (applicabel for both file and directory)

